hi I'm Michael today we're going to look
at movement and boxing too often we see
trainers with the clients standing
completely static the box is all done in
one spot and although it maximize the
workout for the client we want to get
them moving as much as we possibly can
so in today's sections we're going to
look at how to introduce those drills we
can use them as warm-ups how it
introduced some drills on the pads and
get the client moving as best we can so
what we're going to look at is getting
the the client moving frost and foremost
a great way to do this as shadow boxing
what's to fold allows your client to
practice the movement as well as an
excellent warm-up drill okay so I start
off with the basics the straight punch
we've covered in the past the jab and
the cross no in order to get these
working West movement client needs to
get a little step going each time I saw
as you throw the jab just shuffle punch
shuffle back real simple when I'm moving
bring the back foot and step forward
through the punch when I'm going
backwards front foot in and step back
the easy way to remember this the gap
between my feet gets smaller bigger
smaller beggar whatever direction I move
cause the gap then stay it cause the gap
and then step okay that's what's well
when you're doing the cross so if I put
the cross in one or dock the power
through the punch step back and I'm back
out of range
okay a great way which we'll do in the
drill shortly is to get your client to
think of an opponent when they step out
this should be just out of reach on the
clients hand the next one we're going to
do is looking at stepping off on an
angle this is great if you want to do
anybody's shorts and really uppercut
shorts again start with the front foot
this time you're going to go or
find the angle so it steps out and then
body comes around nice and smooth
steps out body comes around alright
sema4 want to work off the back foot I
step across and it comes round it's all
about working through the hips and on
the pivot alright last one we're going
to look at that's when you want to spend
off okay
front foot stays almost in the same spot
and the back foot is going to pivot
round so one to front so it stays back
foot pivots takes me off the lane of the
pads again again they it's going to get
the participant moving when the pad
holder starts moving around completely
awesome
so I got myself started thinking of the
wrong thing get myself caught up in it
okay so in order to put all that
together and to some shadowboxing nice
and simple the client doesn't need on
water space you can do this in the group
setting and just get the participants to
be aware of who's around about them so
they start off there just step jab step
back
jab step back can add then jab cross
step back jab cross step back if you
want to add on the side load movement
step bring it back
you can either in one two step bring it
back okay
what's the pivot exactly the same way
one two pivot one two pivot pivot you
get the client working all the way
around once you become confident with
those basics you can then have them
start to freestyle they can do the wrong
thing and there's a great way to get a
warm up get them moving they just start
to throw the punches they move and what
other angles that they want to move
and through whatever punches they feel
they want to practice on alright next
I'm going to show you a combination on
the pads which allows you to what that
forwards backwards movement so what
we're going to do now is pick the
movement for the straight punch ease
into a partner drill so again this can
be watched as part of your class or if
you're working with one-on-one clients
you can get them to what les seemed real
so all I'm going to do start off in that
position I should be just out of range
of my pads to start off with as you
stand to course they don't need to move
it's important that they start really
cannot touch surprised less force as a
person his punching to have to create
that movement starts off just a single
jab step in jab step back jab step back
once I've got that you add then pop two
on it which is just jab cross so step
one to step back out step n one to step
back out once you're confident that the
person punching is comfortable the pad
holder can start to assess the distance
all they're going to do is throw that
hand out towards my head F it's just in
front of my hands you know a good
distance as they can touch the head the
person isn't moving far enough this is
to larger gap that's too far back and
they're going to have to take multiple
steps to get in okay so this time
Stephens gonna throw out after I move
back just to assess my distance for me
one two perfect to your course so you
can see it doesn't move out in time and
the pods there alright so the full
combination starts off single jab move
back one two
and then going to double jab and then
four straight punches one two three four
okay once that's profession the pad
holder can then start to angle say to
save after each punch and this will
force your client to practice those side
steps and those little shuffles that we
spoke of earlier jab moves off one two
this each time I'm still moving back but
I've now got to get myself and Lane with
the pad holder before they start when
they step round step over and bike so
the full combination though that's feed
this is how it'll work in real time once
you've got your client or your
participants feeling comfortable and
confident and it let's just hope the
drill will look hopefully that gives you
some tools to take away work on
straightaway use it with your clients
use it and your your classes notice the
movement of your participant so increase
know it's a workout level start to go up
hopefully this is something that you
find useful and we'll see you again next
time